---
layout: post
title: IFT6758 Demo Post
---

This post outlines a few more things you may need to know for creating and configuring your blog posts.
If you are interested in more general template features or syntax, you can visit the [Introducing Lanyon]({% post_url 2020-04-03-introducing-lanyon %}) or the [Example Content]({% post_url 2020-04-02-example-content %}) posts.

## Configurations

You should modify some of the default values in `_config.yml`, found in the root directory of this repo.
Things like the title, tagline, description, author information, etc. are all fair game to modify.
Be more careful when modifying the url information - things can break if done incorrectly (these are used if you are deploying via Github pages)

## Creating Posts

To create a new post in the blog, add a new Markdown file to the `_posts/` directory, with the name following the format `YYYY-MM-DD-postname.md`.
Begin the post with the following code:

```markdown
---
layout: post
title: [POST TITLE]
---
```

From there, write your content as you would a normal Markdown file.
In general, I would recommend writing one sentence per line. 
This is not required, but this is far easier to work with than having a single giant line of multiple sentences for a single paragraph.

## Interactive plots

Here's how you could embed interactive figures that have been exported as HTML files.
Note that we will be using plotly for this demo, but anything that allows you to HTML should work.
All that's required is for you to export your figure into HTML format, and make sure that the file exists in the `_includes` directory in this repository's root directory.
To embed it into any page, simply insert the following code anywhere into your page.

```markdown
{% raw %}{% include [FIGURE_NAME].html %}{% endraw %} 
```

For example, the following code can be used to generate the figure underneath it.

```python
import pandas as pd
import plotly.express as px

df = pd.read_csv('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/plotly/datasets/master/earthquakes-23k.csv')

fig = px.density_mapbox(df, lat='Latitude', lon='Longitude', z='Magnitude', radius=10,
                        center=dict(lat=0, lon=180), zoom=0,
                        mapbox_style="stamen-terrain")
fig.show()

fig.write_html('./_includes/plotly_demo_1.html')
```

{% include plotly_demo_1.html %}


The above figure is pretty cool, but you can also embed heavier/more complex figures.
For brevity, the following figure is generated from the included `plotly_html.ipynb` notebook file in the repo's root directory.

{% include plotly_demo_2.html %}
